Label Studio Semi-Auto-Annotation with SAM (#49)
open-mmlab/playground: label_anything/readme.md

# OpenMMLab PlayGround：Label-Studio X SAM 半自动化标注之 Point2Label

This article will introduce a semi-automated annotation approach that combines Label-Studio and SAM (Segment Anything), allowing users to obtain object masks and bounding box annotations by simply clicking a point within the object's area. Community users can learn from this method to improve their data annotation efficiency.

<br>

<div align=center>
    <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/25839884/233835223-16abc0cb-09f0-407d-8be0-33e14cd86e1b.gif" width="80%">
</div>

<br>

> - SAM (Segment Anything) is a segmentation model launched by Facebook, designed to segment everything.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- SAM (Segment Anything) is a segmentation model launched by Meta AI, designed to segment everything.
```

# OSX
pip install torch==1.10.1 torchvision==0.11.2 torchaudio==0.10.1

```

Install SAM and download the pre-trained model:

```shell
cd path/to/playground/label_anything
pip install opencv-python pycocotools matplotlib onnxruntime onnx
pip install git+https://github.com/facebookresearch/segment-anything.git
wget https://dl.fbaipublicfiles.com/segment_anything/sam_vit_b_01ec64.pth

# For better segmentation results, use the sam_vit_h_4b8939.pth weights
# wget https://dl.fbaipublicfiles.com/segment_anything/sam_vit_l_0b3195.pth
# wget https://dl.fbaipublicfiles.com/segment_anything/sam_vit_h_4b8939.pth
```

Install Label-Studio 和 label-studio-ml-backend

```shell
# sudo apt install libpq-dev python3-dev # Note: If using Label Studio 1.7.2 version, you need to install libpq-dev and python3-dev dependencies.

# Installing label-studio may take some time. If you cannot find the version, please use the official source.
pip install label-studio==1.7.3
pip install label-studio-ml==1.0.9
```

## Start the service:

Start the SAM backend inference service:

```shell
cd path/to/playground/label_anything

> label-studio-ml start sam --port 8003 --with \
> sam_config=vit_b \
> sam_checkpoint_file=./sam_vit_b_01ec64.pth \
> out_mask=True \
> out_bbox=True \
> device=cuda:0 \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
label-studio-ml start sam --port 8003 --with \
  sam_config=vit_b \
  sam_checkpoint_file=./sam_vit_b_01ec64.pth \
  out_mask=True \
  out_bbox=True \
  device=cuda:0
```

</View>
```
In the above XML, we have configured the annotations, where KeyPointLabels are for keypoint annotations, BrushLabels are for Mask annotations, PolygonLabels are for bounding polygon annotations, and RectangleLabels are for rectangle annotations. In order to make the SAM inference backend support the action callback when receiving KeyPointLabels, the smart attribute of KeyPointLabels in the XML needs to be set to true. This example uses two categories, cat and person. If community users want to add more categories, they need to add the corresponding categories in KeyPointLabels, BrushLabels, PolygonLabels, and RectangleLabels respectively.

Next, copy and add the above XML to Label-Studio, and then click Save.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/25839884/233832662-02f856e5-48e7-4200-9011-17693fc2e916.png)

After that, go to Settings and click Add Model to add the OpenMMLabPlayGround backend inference service. Set the URL for the SAM backend inference service, enable Use for interactive preannotations, and click Validate and Save.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/25839884/233836727-568d56e3-3b32-4599-b0a8-c20f18479a6a.png)

> 看到如下 Connected 就说明后端推理服务添加成功。

Reviewer: Translate into English.

You need to turn on the Auto-Annotation switch, and it is recommended to check Auto accept annotation suggestions. Then, click on the Smart tool on the right side, switch to Point, and select the object label that needs to be annotated below. Here, we select cat.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/25839884/233833200-a44c9c5f-66a8-491a-b268-ecfb6acd5284.png)

As shown in the following gif animation, you only need to click a point on the object, and the SAM algorithm can segment and detect the entire object.

![SAM8](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/25839884/233835410-29896554-963a-42c3-a523-3b1226de59b6.gif)

After submitting all the images, click on export to export the annotated dataset in COCO format, which will generate a compressed file of the annotated dataset. Note: only the bounding box annotations are exported here. If you want to export the instance segmentation annotations, you need to set out_poly=True when starting the SAM backend service.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/25839884/233835852-b2f56cf1-1608-44c8-aa2d-d876f58e61f3.png)

> 用 vscode 打开解压后的文件夹，可以看到标注好的数据集，包含了图片和 json 格式的标注文件。

Reviewer: Translate into English.
